---
title: "The Odin Project Foundations: HTML basics and CSS"
date: 2022-06-13T19:05:37-05:00
---

I started The Odin Project (TOP) in June of 2022. I have had some experience in HTML. When I was about 12, I would play around with the basic of HTML making basic websites that were just really comprised of heading Elements and they basically looked like this.

```html
<html>
    <body>
        <h1>This is a heading<h1>
        <p>Hello World</p>
    </body>
</html>
```

It was nothing too flashy, Just some HTML code to show up in a browser. I then had some further experience with HTML when I took a class in college for Web Scripting. The curriculum in the class showed me how to make a website with a purpose. This is also where I learned how to use CSS for the first time. The files have been lost to time but I remember making a website about one of my passions, ukuleles. Looking back on the website, it wasn't the most beautifully designed website. It had a light blue background with accents of yellow. It was an eye sore. 

I went through the HTML Foundations pretty quickly, most of the section was review for me. Doing the HTML boilerplate was a little new to me. One of my goals was to learn the HTML boilerplate by memory. I achieved that goal.

>Side note, I have used linux before but this is my first time using git and github for version control. I was able to pick it up pretty quickly as TOP has an excellent guide on how to set it up and how to use Git

CSS was a little new. My college course had some CSS at the end of the class which covered a basic level of CSS and some Responsive Web Design. TOP has excellent guide of the foundations of CSS teaching you the syntax of CSS and how to use different kinds of selectors. Overall I found this lesson helpful. At the end of the lesson, they had 6 exercises that went all the materials that the class went over.

I have used both of these lessons to make the first project of TOP. Here is the live version. [Live version of TOP recipe project.](https://lorenzohill.github.io/odin-recipes/) The repo will be linked at the end of this blog post. This was a pretty simple project. Very straightforward. TOP has you make the HTML site first and then after they taught you CSS they told you go back to the project and style it how you please. I stuck with a blue pallette wit a rounded divs. 

I made some good progress. Most of this has been review to me. The next couple of lessons have me learning how to use block and flexbox to format the website how we want. I am excited because I have not used flexbox to design websites so it is going to be new to me.

 Github Recipes Project Repo: <https://github.com/lorenzohill/odin-recipes>